[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> While most entertainers spend
their lives in the spotlight,
Della Reese has turned
her spotlight to God
>> "For God so loved the world
that he gave his only begotten
son that whosoever believed
in Him shall not perish,
but have everlasting life."
>> She has devoted her life to
helping others discover the God
within them through her music,
her acting, and her ministry.
>> This is eternal life right
here, not some other spring.
This is it.
And this is not the rehearsal.
This is your life.
>> Della Reese Patricia Early
grew up on the east side
of Detroit.
And from early on, Della
expressed God's word
through song.
[MUSIC - DELLA REESE]
>> (SINGING) I
want to thank you.
I want to thank you
cuz' you're good to me.
>> As a teenager, Della
was discovered by the great
spiritual singer
Mahalia Jackson.
Della knew then
that it was possibly
to spiritually move people
through her creative talents.
Della went on to
perform in nightclubs
all over the country,
but it wasn't
until her performance on
the "Ed Sullivan Show"
that really made her a star.
She has been a true pioneer
in the world of show business
by becoming the first
black entertainer
to host "The Tonight Show"
as well as her own talk show.
Della has also overcome
serious adversities,
which have brought her to
death's door more than once.
Her unwavering faith has
time and again brought
her back stronger and
more committed to making
a difference with people.
[MUSIC - DELLA REESE]
>> (SINGING) I
want to thank you.
I want to thank you.
Ooo.
>> Then in 1994 after more
than 50 years in show business,
Della took on the role of her
lifetime in the hit network
television show
"Touched by an Angel."
Her spirit and
determination have
inspired millions of people.
And she has proven that she
is truly an angel among us.
Della, thank you for
sitting down with us today.
I know God is in this room.
But since you do it
so well, will you
remind us all with a
blessing before we begin?
>> Well, you have
just blessed us.
You've recognized that
God is in the midst of us.
And the thing that
I think makes people
so wary of having a relationship
with God-- there seems to be so
many forms you have to follow.
And it's not really necessary.
What's necessary is to know
that God lives inside you.
And you are in contact
with him whenever you
are consciously aware of him.
And since he does live inside
of you, you have all that He is.
And He is a blessing power.
So you just blessed all of us.
>> Wonderful.
Do you think, Della, that there
is a difference between prayer
and talking to God?
>> I don't.
I don't.
Every thought is a prayer.
I don't think you have
to come with flowery--
"Oh, Great Savior,
or Rose of Sharon,
oh bright and Morning Sun.
He's inside of me.
He knows I'm going
through a crisis right now
and I don't feel
Rose of Sharon-ish.
I feel I want to talk to God
who's my friend about what's
happening to me.
I got this from my mother.
She had a constant
conversation with God,
which taught me that nothing
is too small or too large.
Or there's nothing that
he is not aware of.
She would say, "Now,
Father, what are
we going to cook for dinner?
You know?
And she'd listen.
And she'd say, "Oh
yeah, that'd be nice."
And so I as a child,
coming up I understood
a constant
relationship with God.
And I find it quite favorable.
>> It sounds to me that your
mother taught you and had great
faith.
>> Now, this is going to
sound kind of strange.
She didn't teach me.
She didn't say, "Now, this
is this and this is that."
She lived it every day.
It was a normal mean for her.
She and God laughed and talked.
And I don't know if I can
really explain it to you.
But as a child,
it didn't make Him
somewhere away that I
had to get in touch with.
It didn't make him
something I had to do.
Because He lived in
a house with my mama.
You know?
So there was no thing I
had to be, or say, or do,
no form I had to fill out.
Because there He was.
He lived in the house with us.
And so my father
worked in a steel mill.
He poured steel,
literally poured steel.
And he made $65 a week.
And that was everything.
That was all the
money for everything.
And it would not last.
It would run out.
And she would sit--
we had this big ugly
green chair that she
would sit in with
her legs crossed,
in a yoga or Indian manner.
And she would moan and rock.
And she would talk to God.
And she would say,
"I've got enough meat
to make the lunches.
And I have some of
those black eyed peas
left from the other day.
And I've got a
couple of tomatoes.
And I could make
that for dinner.
But I don't have any bread.
And I really need some bread.
And the money has run-- but
you know the money's run out.
And there's no bread.
And I need some bread.
It wasn't that she was begging,
or asking, or anything.
It was very feasible
to me that he
was a constant presence,
ever available, always
interested in what you needed.
>> Then answer me this, if
you will is faith a gift?
>> All that God is, I am.
And one of the things
that He has given me
is his faith in me
to be as wonderful
as He created me to be.
So that's one of the
attributes that I have.
I'm made in his
image and likeness.
So if He has faith
in me, then faith
is one of the
faculties that is mine.
>> Della's faith was seriously
tested when she witnessed
the darker side of humanity
at the death of her very close
friend Redd Foxx.
>> I was on "Royal
Family" with Redd Foxx.
Redd Foxx fell in my arms
before he made his transition.
And I was so disgusted with
the way his wife was treated.
The doctor came out in
the hospital waiting room
and said to Mrs.
Foxx, "Your husband
has gone on, Mrs. Foxx."
And the powers that be for the
"Royal Family" said, "Well,
what are we going to do?
Because this script is
written for Redd and Della."
I mean, the woman is
sitting right here
and they were talking
like, "Well, maybe we
could get so-and-so and maybe
we could such and such."
Nobody has said, "Mrs. Foxx"--
now, I am livid.
It was so disrespectful.
I said I would not ever
do a situation comedy
or any kind of television show.
Because I wouldn't want them to
treat Franklin and my daughter,
Della Junior, that way.
>> Della's confidence in show
business was restored when she
was asked to start a new
television pilot about angels.
However, the show seemed to
have little chance of airing.
But with God on her
side, Della helped
make "Touched by an Angel"
a phenomenal success.
>> I get a call to come to CBS.
They want to talk to me.
And I go and they
tell me-- introduce me
to Martha Williamson
and tell me they're
going to do "Touched
by an Angel,"
but I'm not going to do
any more of this at all.
And I tell my husband,
who is my manager,
"Please tell them
in a nice way I
don't want to do this,
to get somebody else."
So he says, "Well,
think about it."
So I come home, and I went
in my room, got in my bed,
and prayed.
And I said, "Father,
you know I don't
like the corporate structure.
You know I don't like
working with these people.
They have no heart.
I'm very happy singing.
I'm comfortable.
You're blessing me.
And I'm fine."
And He said as clearly to
me as I'm saying to you,
"Do this for me and you
can retire in 10 years."
Very distinctly, He has English.
Very distinctly and
very big, you know?
And now, I've got to do this.
Because I can't disobey
him that boldly.
I mean, I sneak around
and do a few things.
But just boldly say, "No,
I'm not going to do that"--
so I start to do it, which I
find out later, my purpose,
not only to do the
show, but is to be there
because it's going to be rocky.
And because I'm
the one that knows
that it's going to be
successful for 10 years,
I'm supposed to be there to say
things, and do things, and hold
people together.
But it was funny,
because the first year
I said-- when it was over,
they gave us four shows,
they gave us six shows.
It took to get to 13--
so the 13th show,
they said, "That's it.
It's not going to work.
And we're not going to be back."
So I called everybody
together said,
"Take whatever you need kind
of job in order to survive,
because we're coming
back next year.
And we're going to be
the hit of the season.
So don't get hung
up in nothing so you
can't give back, because you
want to be a part of this."
So the second year,
they all came back
and we were the hit
of the season, OK?
Now, the first season when I
was telling them to hold on
and I was telling them God
said this, they're going,
"Uh huh, yeah, I know."
But at the end of
the second season,
they're saying,
"What did God say
we're going to do next season?"
I loved it!
They came one at a time,
took me over to the corner.
>> Whispering, "Ssh, ssh."
>> "What did he say we're
going to do next season?"
It was wonderful.
I loved it.
And this is our sixth season.
I only have four more to do.
>> Not too long ago, I was
watching an episode of "Touched
by an Angel," and I
was sobbing, Della.
It's the episode with the
little boy named Petey.
And Winona Judd sings
the 151st Psalm.
I was sobbing when all the
neighbors come and sing
to Petey.
And a friend of mine called.
And I said, "Do you ever
watch 'Touched by an Angel'?"
And she said, "Chantal,
I watch it all the time,
but don't tell anybody.
I'm so embarrassed I don't
want people to know."
Why is that?
>> I've got a story like that.
There is a man who
works at the airport.
He's a skycap.
And he is a man's man.
>> Got it.
>> You know, he's a man's man.
And he's been working
there maybe 30 years
and I've been traveling
there 30 years.
And so we are travel friends.
And he said to me, "Step
over here a minute."
I said, "OK."
He says, "You know, you've got
the best show on television.
If they would listen to you,
you could help their lives."
He said, "It made
me cry one day."
He said, "But don't you
dare tell anybody that."
I said, "I'll
never speak a word.
I won't tell a soul."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I want you to go to the
mirror and look directly
into your eyes and let whatever
that feeling is pass on by.
And when the feeling
is gone, kind of
lean on the sink a little bit
and get a position and say,
"I am a lover."
Oh, I'm so serious.
Y'all are laughing at me.
I'm so serious.
I'm serious!
>> Della preaches that to love
God is to love your fellow man.
And when she preaches, she does
so as an ordained minister.
In 1987 Della began her church
called Understanding Principles
for Better Living in her living
room with just eight people.
Today, her congregation is
thriving with over 500 members.
Her ministry's goal
is to educate people
through practical Christianity
to be the victor and not
the victim of life's
circumstances.
[MUSIC - DELLA REESE]
And Della truly
practices what she
preaches when she talks
about the love of her life,
her husband, Franklin Lett.
When you met Franklin, did you
walk slowly into love with him
or did you fall in love?
>> Neither, neither.
I went to apply for
a job with Franklin.
He was in marketing and
advertising at the time.
And he was looking for a
spokesperson for the Borden's
dairy product, the cross
over spokesman-- that
meant that the white people
liked you and the black people,
too.
>> Got it.
>> So I had been
recommended to him.
And for some reason,
he had turned me down.
He tried Carmen McRae,
and Nancy Wilson,
and several other people, but
he wasn't satisfied with them.
And Franklin said, OK, he
would take a meeting with me.
And we had the meeting.
It was a business meeting.
He was very nice.
He was not my type at all.
"Thank you very much.
Goodbye, call me when you've
got something to tell me."
OK?
That's-- he did--
he was not my picture.
>> Stop it.
>> I'm serious.
>> He is so cute.
>> He Was not my picture.
>> Wow.
>> My picture of a man with
six foot three, really,
really black, muscular.
I could run into him and
he wouldn't be moved.
This was not in my picture.
This is what-- so he was--
he was a nice looking
man, a nice man.
I liked him OK.
>> But he wasn't your picture.
>> But he wasn't my
picture of a man.
So we started talking,
doing this business deal
about being the spokesperson.
I don't know where the
conversation changed.
But somewhere long distance, it
changed from this business deal
to you're a good friend.
So we became friends
on the telephone.
And then, I don't know when,
but one night, he calls me up.
And for the time,
it was 11 o'clock
in Los Angeles, which
made it 1:00 in Chicago.
And he called me.
And I'm sitting at my desk.
And I look at the clock.
And he's talked to
me for 45 minutes.
And he hasn't said
anything about no business.
So at this 45 minute
conversation on the phone,
I knew--
>> He had showed you.
>> That this was--
Franklin was the one.
Because it wasn't
rushing to fall in love.
It wasn't, "Ooh, you
look good to me."
It had grown from
business to a friendship.
He had a good mind to talk to.
He was a lot of fun.
I knew all this before the
45 minute call, you see?
So I knew that he was the one.
Repeat after me.
I am
>> I am.
>> An unconditional lover.
>> That means I can
love through anything.
I love you.
>> I love you.
>> With the love of the Lord.
>> I surround you.
>> Right here.
>> Right now.
>> With the powerful.
>> Unconditional love.
>> Of God.
>> You ready for
a dicey question?
>> I don't know what that means.
But if you can stand the answer,
I can stand the question.
>> Is there anybody who
ever says to you, "Della,
that is the stupidest
idea I've ever heard."
>> I think most of the time.
Because God does not
make common sense.
There's nothing
common about God.
And when you listen
to God, He tells
you to do things that he doesn't
necessarily tell other people
that you're going to do.
It has nothing to do with them.
He speaks to me.
And from where you're
sitting, I imagine
what I'm doing does
look stupid, because you
don't have any information.
That's why you have
to have the faith
to know that you
know what you know.
For an example, as
I told you earlier,
I knew that Franklin
was what God had sent
to me, because God told me so.
But God didn't
tell Franklin, OK?
All right?
So for four years--
I'm so serious.
So for four years,
it was my faith,
knowing that this
was my stuff, that I
took some things that--
and it made me grow.
Because when I met
Franklin, I was--
I was powerful and successful.
And my attitude was,
"If you can't give me
what I want when
I want it, you can
keep it 'cause I don't need it.
I'll get it myself."
And those four years, I
don't mean they reduced me.
Don't misunderstand me.
He didn't break me down.
I'm not trying to say that.
But I learned how to work
with him, to be one with him,
to let some of my stuff go.
And he learned how to let
some of this stuff go.
And we became one, you see?
But I don't mind, you
know, what you think of.
Everything you think
is your problem.
It's not my problem.
>> So let me ask you this.
>> Yes.
>> Do you think people
ever think, "Della Reese,
she can be tough."
>> I'll say it again.
What you think is your problem.
That's not my problem.
Yes, if I need to be
tough, I can be tough.
Yes, if I need to
be sweet, I'm sugar.
Yes, if you make me mad,
you will know I'm angry.
Yes, if you appeal to
me, I want to help you.
I want to be--
yes, I'm a human--
part of me anyway
is a human being.
And so I have all
of those things
that you're asking me about.
>> I want to learn
how to do that.
I want to learn how to take
someone's opinion of me
and say, "That's
your responsibility."
>> You just did it.
>> I did?
>> Did I do it?
>> It's just that simple.
Oh.
>> You just did it.
Didn't she just do it?
Didn't you hear her just do it?
She just did it.
>> I did it, didn't I?
>> That's right.
That's all you have to do.
>> It's your responsibility.
>> Absolutely.
What you think-- listen,
I'm having enough trouble
working with what I'm thinking.
I don't have time to be
working with what I'm thinking
and what you're thinking, too.
You see?
You're not supposed to
be judging me anyway.
The Bible says, "Judge not
so you won't be judged."
So you think this--
see, that's what causes
the wars and the confusion.
You think what I
just did was stupid.
And I have to
retaliate and think
what you're doing is stupid.
And so now here we are
in the stupid thing
going back and forth.
Neither one of us
are progressing.
We're wasting time
here, because you're
going to do and be
and have who you are.
What you draw to you is
what you're going to have.
And if I let you draw
me into stupidity,
that's what I'm going to have.
I have to have sense
enough to say, "Well, no, I
don't need to go there.
You have that."
>> Did you always know this?
>> I think so.
But see, I didn't
always know that I
had the right to know this.
You see?
I always knew this and I always
responded to my knowledge.
But it used to bother
me if you thought
I wasn't absolutely correct.
It used to bother me if you--
ah, I couldn't care less if I
sat down like this and said,
"I'm going to care.
I'm going to care.
I'm just going to sit
here 'til I care."
I would probably have a beard.
>> One of the reasons that
I have personally loved you
for as long as I've known you
and the reason so many do is
that you, Della, have a--
it's a presence of joy.
You walk into a room and
you can feel your joy,
though you have been through
trials and tribulations.
Other people have been through
trials and tribulations
and they have not walked into
the light and they are angry.
You walked into the light.
>> Well, no, I was in the light.
>> Always?
>> You see, I'm telling you--
I just told you about my momma.
>> Tell me again so I know.
>> For as long as
I could remember,
I have been consciously
aware of God,
of the Christ inside of me.
So I've always
been in the light.
And once, once he brings you
through something-- oh Father,
please let me get this over--
once you know that you're
in the direst of places
and you speak to Him and
He brings you through,
you can never be captured again.
Because you know that
all you have to do
is go to Him and speak
to him and that he
is, through your faith, going
to bring you out of this.
There's nothing but joy in that.
It's when you are
confused, and you
don't know what
you're going to do,
and you don't know how it's
going to come out that you feel
you are part of the darkness.
That's what negativity
does to you.
It confuses you so that it
makes you separate yourself
from your power, which is
the God that's inside of you.
That's his whole point.
I won't let Him do that to me.
>> God has answered your prayer.
Because you know what?
I got it.
>> Good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When you love your enemies,
you strip them of power.
When you hate them, you
give them your power.
Because what you have your
mind on has its mind on you.
In order to hate
somebody, you've
got to think about
them all the time.
>> Della persevered in the face
of racial discrimination by her
will, her determination, but
most importantly her faith.
>> What brought
me from the slums,
which was before the ghetto,
to where I am now was the fact
that I sincerely believed that
God wanted for me the very
best, that he had
given me this talent.
And all I had to do was go
and He would go with me.
And if I would open my
mouth, He would speak for me,
that He would never
leave me nor forsake me.
My mother showed
me that every day.
I took that with me.
So when I got knocked down, I
bounced up and I started again.
Bless people who curse you.
Jesus hanging on the
cross blessed them folks
saying, "Forgive
them, Lord, they
don't know what they're doing."
That's your statement.
I forgive you, because you
don't know what you're doing.
You don't know who mess
with a child of God.
And you don't know I'm
holding my zapping power back.
You don't know
what you're doing.
I'm just going to forgive
you and let you slide.
I'm a creative individual.
I must be about
creating something.
So I don't know about
living on the edge.
Every day is exciting.
I wake up.
I woke up this
morning by myself.
I got up out of bed by myself.
I washed my face and
brushed my teeth by my--
I walked down them
steps by myself.
I got dressed by myself.
There was no nurse.
There was no doctor.
There were no x-rays.
There were no shots.
There were no pills.
I got up by the grace of God.
And that day is exciting.
It's already exciting.
It's like, "I can get back
into bed, because I've
had a good day already."
That's just my nature.
>> Which leads me to something
else I was thinking about.
When I think of your
schedule, I couldn't do it.
I know men who couldn't
do your schedule.
>> Is that supposed
to be a compliment?
>> Oh yes, ma'am.
>> Why?
Why?
Because a man couldn't
do it and I could do it?
Why could that be a compliment?
That's another whole show.
Let's go on.
>> Well no, let's stay here.
Let's stay here.
You know why?
The physicality of it.
>> No, it's not.
I have a piece of God in me.
The piece of God in
me is the same size
as the piece of God in
every man in this room.
Nobody has any more god
in them than I have in me.
And if I-- if I call on the God
in me, all that God is I am.
All that He has is mine.
If I call on that,
I can do anything,
be I male, female, whatever.
>> Are there ever mornings,
particularly Sunday mornings
when you preach, that you
open your eyes and you say,
"I don't want to do this?"
>> Oh, there are mornings when
I say that but not necessarily
Sunday mornings.
Because Sunday morning is
when I get revitalized.
That may be the only morning
that I want to get up.
But this morning, I didn't want
to get up and come here and be
with you.
I just wanted to lay there
and just get way down there
and turn that electric blanket
on, just get way down in there.
That's what I wanted.
But not on a Sunday morning,
because on Sunday morning, I
get to be with
people of like mind.
And we get to experience
the spirit of God.
So Sunday, for me, is
the best day of the week.
But there are many
mornings I don't
want to be picked up at 5:30.
I don't want to be picked up at
6:30 a lot of those mornings.
>> What gets you out of bed?
>> I took the job to do
"Touched by an Angel."
I signed a contract.
I had the opportunity to say no.
So when I signed the
contract, I took on--
I agreed to "Pick
me up at 5:30."
me up at 6:30."
I agreed to "I will stay here
and work until you get it."
Now see, that because--
if I had said no, I could've
laid in bed all day every day.
You see?
But I said yes and
I signed my name.
So that-- you know, you grumble
a little bit, but you get up
and you do what you have to do.
>> You know, it's fascinating
that you say Sunday is the one
day that you do get up.
Because I would
think, boy, that's
the day that you're
most tired and you feel
most entitled to stay in bed.
>> Oh, no, no, no.
>> I think that when you are
given the gift of being able
to, say, sing like you do, one
of the things you have to do is
acknowledge that God gave it to
you and own the gift and say,
"I can do it."
And that makes you better at it.
Is it the same thing
when you are a minister
and you preach the way you do?
Because I have seen you preach.
Is that something you have to
own and say, "That's a gift
and I'm good at it?"
>> It is.
The criteria for
me as a minister
is of myself, of myself,
I can do nothing.
Because as an
entertainer, it is myself.
I depend on myself to do it.
I depend on my voice.
I depend on my stage knowledge.
I depend on the arrangement.
I depend on the musicians.
I come from the God in me, but
I am in charge of these things,
because this is the talent
He gave me to work with.
As a minister, I claim the
right to teach the lesson
as Jesus would have taught it.
And Jesus's criterion is "Of
myself, I can do nothing.
Get me out of the way.
Come up through me
and say the things
that these people need to hear."
The people who come to the
church, I don't know them.
I mean, I haven't been in
touch with them every--
I don't know what they need.
Only God knows what they need.
So that's one of the times
when people say-- especially
the people in the
church who have
to do the service with me say,
"This is the dumbest thing."
Because I have the lesson
and I'm on the way to church.
And He'll say, "Don't say that.
Say this."
And all the songs are
arranged for that.
All the people are
ready for that.
And I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to do this.
Because this is what--
and this comes up
and comes through.
And people will come
and say, "That's
exactly what I needed
to hear today."
>> What does it feel
like when you preach?
Because I see you
physically change.
There's something that
happens physically.
It's like there's
something burning in you.
Is that my imagination?
>> No, it's not
your imagination,
because I am out of the way.
That's what I'm saying to you.
It's the spirit of God that
is doing what is being done.
So therefore, He knows
what he needs to hear.
He knows what she needs to hear.
And somehow, it comes up
out of me, those things.
I don't know what's her problem.
I don't know what's
bothering you.
But when I go, my prayer is "Let
them see You when they see me.
Let them hear You
when they hear me.
Less of me, more of Thee."
You see?
So I'm out of the way.
And what is happening
is the Father
is coming up through me, to
me, to say the things that you
need to hear.
[APPLAUSE]
Put your hand on your heart,
and put your hand on your head,
and say to you, to
you, "I love you."
>> I love you.
>> "With the love of the Lord."
>> With the love of the Lord.
>> "I surround you."
>> I surround you.
>> "Right here."
>> Right here.
>> "Right now."
>> Right now.
>> "With the powerful."
>> With the powerful.
>> "Unconditional love."
>> Unconditional love.
>> "Of God."
Of God.
>> "And so it is."
>> And so it is.
>> Amen.
[APPLAUSE]
>> It was in her early days
working with Mahalia Jackson
that Della first experienced
how powerful God could be.
How did the great Mahalia
Jackson inform your life?
>> Well, she taught me some
things that I did not know she
taught me until much
later in my life.
I didn't really care for her.
I went with her when I was 13.
And my mother looked her
in the eye and said to her,
"I would let my child
go with anybody,
because I have a good girl.
But I'm trusting you.
And I expect you to
bring my good girl back."
Well, Mahalia took
this to heart.
And she was worse than my
mother, who was very definite.
I don't think she
was strict, but she
was definite about what
you were going to do
and what you
weren't going to do.
And Mahalia was
worse than my mother.
So I didn't care for her at all.
But what happened-- the
thing that she taught me--
I had this note.
I could hit this high note.
And I found out I
don't know when--
don't ask me for a date--
that when you hit a high
note, people's flesh crawls.
Whether it's right on
the pitch or whatever,
a high note will make your flesh
crawl and your inner ear ring.
Now, I didn't know
these were the things,
but I knew that it did
something to people.
So when everything wasn't
going like I wanted to go,
I'd go "Ah!"
you know?
And it would work.
I found out that it worked.
So when I went to
sing with Mahalia,
I went to help this old lady.
So this was my attitude.
So I would sing.
I would sing all up
and down the aisles.
I'd climb over the pews.
I'd jump off the stage.
I was young and vigorous.
And Mahalia would say,
"Sing baby, oh, sing baby,"
and just encourage me.
Then when I would sit
down, she would not
get up out of the seat.
And she would start to moan,
"Ooh, ooh, hmm, mmm, hmm."
People are jumping
out of the balcony.
She hasn't said a word.
She ain't done nun'.
I done run all up
and down the aisles,
and jumped all over the
seats and everything.
And she's just
sitting there humming.
And everybody-- I
couldn't stand that.
How does she do that to me?
I was very upset by it.
But then I began to
watch her, you know?
And I would notice that
she played all day.
But about two hours before
the time to do the concert,
she went away,
absolutely went away.
She either went to her
room and picked up a Bible
or she just went away from us.
You know what I mean by that?
From the prayers--
>> I do.
>> She just went away, OK?
When we got to the
place, we had prayer.
We always made a
circle and had prayer.
And we said the
prayer and went back
to our makeup and
work on my hair,
or whatever we were doing.
She said the prayer and
she stayed in the prayer.
So when she went out
there, she was so full
of the spirit of God.
If she had a cough,
they would've
jumped out of the balcony.
You see?
She taught me that the
art of communication
is from within out.
You see?
And it's that-- if I get the
first copy, if my copy is not
clear, yours is
going to be blurred.
And she taught me that, not
with all these explanations
I'm giving you instinctively.
I saw what she was doing.
I saw that she was coming
from-- all the rest of us
was coming from our voices.
And she was coming from
the Christ inside of her.
She taught me the
art of communicating.
Love is not tough love.
Love is not stuck on yourself.
That's why, when people start
telling you, "If you love me
you would"--
huh?
That ain't it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Della's church called
Understanding Principles
for Better Living has become
increasingly popular over
the years because of the
practical way she teaches
God's word.
Is it a faith?
I mean, is it like
Episcopal, it's Catholic?
>> When we get to
wherever spirits go,
there will be a lot of
disappointed peoples,
because there will
be no sign that says,
"The Baptists go here and
the Episcopalians go here."
We all look the same to God.
God has no respect of person.
We are all the same to Him.
You see?
So we will all be in one group.
And I can't hardly wait.
I want to see Him trying to
find where the Catholics go
and where the--
"does anyone see where
the Baptists are?
I'm looking for the
Protestants around here?"
I can't wait.
I want to be there.
I'm going to laugh out loud.
They're probably going to put me
out of heaven because y'all do
so much funny stuff.
I'm going to laugh at all of it.
>> You know, in the year 2000,
a lot of people are changing
their image, their view,
their discussion of what God
physically looks like.
>> Yeah, they had
a picture painted.
And I don't know how
that's going to work.
They had a picture
painted of Christ.
And he turned out to be black.
I don't how people
can live with that.
But I always wondered
how He stood out there
in that desert, lived in that
desert, and stayed so pale
and his eyes so blue when
everybody else in that desert
was brown.
In my mind, I wondered--
well, you know what I mean.
Whenever I go in the sun,
I get darker, so I just--
but He was the Son of God.
So maybe he didn't want to be
dark and he just stayed light.
>> Well, I'm a blue
eyed light person.
And I can see him this way.
>> But you don't
live in the desert.
You weren't born in the desert.
You weren't born of people
who lived in the desert.
So the pigmentation
of your skin would not
be that, that of the
pigmentation of people
who had lived for centuries
in the sun, in the desert.
>> Mm-hmm.
That's why when I saw
the picture I thought,
"That makes sense to me."
Do you think God
is a man or woman?
>> I think God is a spirit.
Jesus told us that
God is a spirit.
And those who worship
Him must worship Him
in spirit and in truth.
You see?
That's one of the
principles that,
if you live by that, if you
worship Him, if you worship
God with your spirit--
I'm not talking about
stay on your knees
in front of the altar
lighting candles.
I'm not going by any of that.
It's with the
spirit that is you.
You worship God.
In truth, you will
have a better life.
>> Are we seekers today more
than ever, more than we were?
>> Well we're back to where it's
a trend to be spiritual now.
And so people are not as afraid.
You see?
We live by our peers' opinions.
And if our peers
think that it's not--
or if it's not the
fashionable thing to do,
then we don't do it.
But it seems to be the
fashionable thing to do now.
And so people are not afraid.
But they have
always been seekers.
And there have always
been people telling us.
If you look back
in your history,
there were always
people telling us
that, if we would
obey the principles,
learn the principles,
life would be better.
But when I tell you
what God can do,
you may not want to accept it.
But you've got to
know it's the truth.
It's been publicized.
>> You're right.
>> You see?
They done counted me
dead so many times.
You see?
>> They did, more than once.
>> Absolutely.
So I have credentials.
I can tell you.
I don't have to
tell you what I hope
He's going to do what,
I think He'll do,
what He might do if whatever--
I can tell you exactly,
definitely that God heals.
You see?
Because I was supposed to be
dead before I hit the ground.
>> Yeah, but you weren't.
>> That was in 1979.
>> I know.
>> Huh?
So when I tell you
God is a healer,
you have to believe
He is a healer.
Because the doctors
say you can't
be healed from an aneurysm
rupturing in your brain.
Hello.
Not only did one rupture,
when they went in to fix that,
on the other side there were
two more about to rupture.
So 10 days later, they were
back in there and fixed those.
It's like it never
happened to me.
>> Right after this
interview, my good friend Gary
and, in fact, the producer of
the program you're watching
spoke privately with Della about
aneurysms, the fears she faced,
the surgery.
He knew she'd been
down this road before.
And in fact, he was about
to face a similar surgery.
She was so moved by
their conversation
that she was
compelled to carry out
God's work with him at her
church service the next day.
>> After the interview and I
had talked about the fact that I
had had an aneurysm to rupture
in my brain and that there were
two on the other side about
to rupture, he said to me,
"I'm having brain
surgery next week."
And he's been on my heart
ever since he told me.
I said what was in me
to say at that time.
But last night, laying there
in my bed, if he'll let me,
I have to touch him.
We have to pray for him.
And we have to support him to
go and do what he has to do.
May I have your
consciousness for this?
I need your
consciousness for this.
Chantal, come with me.
You know him better than I do.
Come with me.
Don't let this
frighten you, please.
Come to me.
This is a young man.
[APPLAUSE]
A young man.
And the books,
the medical books,
tell you things that
make you afraid.
And fear will kill you.
You see?
I know that he is
a child of God.
And inside of him
is all the power
that he needs to do
whatever he needs to do.
I want you to make
a circle around him.
Oh yes, baby, get around him.
Hold on now, and give
me your consciousness.
You know, ain't nobody
in here but me and you
and this man and God.
And all the rest
of these people,
if they're not helping us,
they are not hurting us,
because God is here.
I thank you Father.
And I can stand that witness
that you are a healer
and you have no
respect of person.
And this is your son and
he is trusting in you.
And you will go
in there with him
and bring him out in the
name of Christ, Jesus.
I accept that this is so.
And therefore, it is so.
And so it is.
>> And so it is.
>> Mmm, mmm, mmm
Ah, ah, oh, oh, oh.
Oh Jesus, oh Jesus.
Oh.
[APPLAUSE]
It's all right.
They have to do what
they have to do.
And most of them
do it really well.
Don't be afraid.
Don't let it frighten you.
God will not leave you.
He will not forsake you.
And this-- he made this brain.
His was the original, you know?
He made this brain.
So he knows everything
about this brain.
Listen to him.
He'll speak to you.
When you're like
that, listen to Him.
Trust Him.
Have faith in him.
He won't let you down.
I promise.
I know.
I've been there.
I really thought I wouldn't
ever live another minute.
They told me I should have been
dead before I hit the floor.
That was in 1979.
This is 2000.
And I'm here and stronger
and better than I ever was.
It was just an experience that
let me know that God loved me.
Trust in Him, baby, trust God.
Just trust God, just trust God.
Just trust Him.
No matter what they
say, you trust Him, OK?
>> Thank you.
>> Oh Jesus, ooh Jesus, Jesus.
>> Thank you, Father.
Thank you, Father.
>> Do you hear him say, I'm
right here and I'm healing
you?"
>> In Genesis, it said, "He
worked so many days and then He
rested."
Where did he rest?
In you and in me.
That's where he is.
So why do I have to look
around and see if he's here?
He's inside me.
>> I'll tell you why,
because you're scared.
>> But if you know He's
inside, how can you be scared?
I want to go home to my momma.
>> I believe you.
I mean, I know it's true.
>> You see, the thing is
you don't really know.
When you really know--
see, and that's
where salvation is,
when you really
know and you know
that you know what you know.
You see?
So when something
comes up, you're
not afraid, because God
is going to handle it.
It may not be today.
It may not be Tuesday.
It may not be next Sunday.
But all I have to do is
stand here on my faith.
He knows I need help.
He's going to take care of me.
That's a different attitude
from, "Oh God, won't you
please come down from
heaven and stand by me?"
You could be hit by a truck
by the time He got down
from heaven, wherever that is.
>> Which brings us all the way
back to the beginning of this
interview with faith.
There has to be a time that
you discover it yourself
and you say, "Oh, He's there."
We don't know it when
we're tiny little things.
You did know it when you
were a tiny little thing.
>> I did?
>> You absolutely did.
>> I know it now.
>> No, you knew it.
You really knew it then.
You didn't question it then.
That's why the Bible said, "You
have to come as a little child.
Because you didn't
question anything."
Your momma was scared to
death you'd be up a tree.
She'd go, "Oh, get
down before you fall."
You never knew nothing
about no falling.
The tree was there.
You climbed up it.
And you was having a ball.
You didn't get scared until
she told you to get scared.
Hello.
When your momma, who is
your first great leader,
said to you, "Oh, you're
going to fall," you held on.
But until that time,
you was up there
swinging your legs
and your feet.
And you was having a ball.
Because you really
knew God then.
You had no feeling at all that
something would happen to you.
Because you just left
God, you really knew.
But then we train
that out of you.
We say, "If you climb
a tree, you will fall."
But then 20 years later,
we say, "Go climb Mt.
Kilimanjaro."
That proves that you're a man.
Well, I couldn't climb the tree.
How am I going to
climb this mountain?
>> You have sung so many songs
and read so many passages from
the Bible and done
so many sermons.
Right now for today as
we sit in this house,
is there something that sums up
who you are in the world today?
>> I hope not.
>> Nothing?
>> I hope I haven't come
to a sum up position.
I hope I'm going to do
some tomorrow nobody ever
thought I was going to do.
And it's going to
be spectacular.
And I'll been known
for that tomorrow,
and then Thursday of next
week do something else
and be known altogether
new for that new thing
I did on Thursday.
Otherwise, I might as well give
it up because I'm at the end.
>> You, my friend, will
never be at the end ever.
I thank you for the most
extraordinary conversation.
>> God bless you for having me.
I enjoyed it.
God bless you and keep you
and your audience, too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]